### Structure of the JS Code Base 

`server.js` that is located in the root code folder `src/` is the entry point into the application. 

All other code components are placed into designated sub-folders, except for `schema.js`, which is used by the GraphQL engine. You can also see `schema.graphql` file in the `src/` folder. This is generated by manually executing `scripts/updateSchema.js`. It is used to share the schema definition with GraphQL clients - we'll talk about this more in the "GraphQL Data API" chapter.

### Demo Project JS Code Folders 

- `src/config` - initiates the runtime configuration with values coming from the OS Environment and `.env` file, or assigns hardcoded defaults. The folder also contains sample SSH key files to handle the JWT security - an optional feature commended out in the demo. JWT is explained in the "Running NodeJS" chapter
- `src/data-seed` - code and sample source YAML files to pre-load the database with test data
- `src/db-handlers` and  `src/db-models` - the data layer, hardcoded for the use of MongoDB via the `mongoose` package; reviewed in details in the "MongoDB Datastore" chapter. Isolating the data layer into a separate set of objects is a common design strategy - helps switching to a different database if needed, by replacing only the data layer components
- `src/http-middleware` - term `middleware` is widely used in JS/web development and can be applied to any program layer that handles any kind of transformation flow or process (or anything at all). `http-middleware` component runs the flow from the http request coming in to the point where the "controller"-like logic (business rules) takes over
- `src/paging-processor` - this is the code that enables navigation through datasets via *"paging"* request, like "extract next n elements after element x" or "last n before x", etc. The code links together GraphQL and MongoDB processes to get the result (so, it is a "middleware")
- `src/relay...` folders - facilitate data handling per GraphQL standards. Discussed in great details in the "GraphQL Data API" chapter
- `src/utils` - miscellaneous code objects, including `logger.js`

A developer familiar with the *MVC* design would be wondering - where are the Models, Views and Controllers? They are kind of embedded in the GraphQL core. Will talk about it more in the "GraphQL Data API" chapter.
<br>
From the folder structure - next, to the Naming Convention 
